# Nintendo 64 Development

The [N64 Development Tools](https://github.com/glankk/n64) is a collection of 
tools designed to compile and test code for the Nintendo 64.

## Building N64 Development Tools for macOS

Getting these tools working is fairly simple, at least when following the 
README in the repository. However, macOS is weird. The `install-deps` script 
does actually work on macOS! Uses brew, and downloads all the dependencies 
without issue. The comment about replacing `sed` with `gsed` is needed, just 
symlink `gsed` to `sed` in the brew bin folder.

Configuring the package also works fine, although the recommended path of 
`/opt/n64` gave me a permission denied error late into the process, even as 
root. When debugging I ultimately decided to test in my home folder (`~/n64`). 
Installing the toolchain also worked fine, when going through the process 
initially it wasn’t happy because I can’t follow directions and forgot to 
symlink `gsed`. Oops.

Compiling and installing the programs was the hardest part. During `make`, it 
would stop every second to say it couldn’t find a particular function, or it 
couldn’t find a specific include. Find the Makefile complaining, then specify 
the includes and libraries in the appropriate places. `-I` for header folders, 
`-L` for library folders, and `-i` for specific files (although if I remember 
correctly this isn’t needed to fix any of the problems). These files were 
downloaded with `brew`, so it’s time to go exploring through the Cellar. It’s 
mostly self-explanatory, make sure the header paths line up with what’s given, 
and if make defines are messed up manually specify the definition (it’s fine, I 
promise). Also, `libusb`’s library name is `usb-1.0`.

### GCC Cross Compiling

The important tools, that being the MIPS cross compilers, oddly enough weren’t 
put in the installation folder? Like, they were thrown about in the repository 
and the specific build folders, like `gcc-cross` was found in 
`n64/build-gcc/gcc`, and this executable is `mips64-gcc`. To add it to my path, 
I just copied all the executable binaries in this folder into `/opt/n64/bin`. 
Was there a cleaner way of doing it? Probably.

macOS headers (the one’s obtained through Xcode) are, in fact, not universal. 
The headers only allow the CPUs macOS has ever been officially released on, so 
PowerPC, Intel, and ARM. To fix this, I downloaded [universal 
headers](https://github.com/ziglang/universal-headers/tree/master/headers/mips64-linux-musl) 
(yes `mips64-linux` works on macOS) and add it to the include path 
when compiling C code for anything using MIPS. Probably a better way of doing 
this, but it works.

